---
layout: post
title: readme // 01
author: Tara Giller, PhD
author_email: tara.giller@gmail.com
feature_img: 
---

# What inspires us

In this regular newsletter, we’ll share the things that inspire and influence us. Content will vary, covering vision, technology, psychology, and design. As a diverse team of scientists and designers, or “descientists,” as we’ve jokingly named ourselves, we’ve got a lot to say. 

# Our vision

We use scientific and design principles to know Canadians better than anyone else and push life in Canada forward. Everything we do ties back to this vision, so that we always understand why we’re doing something. In the attached file, we’ve defined our official “manifesto,” and process to: Learn, Plan, Prove, Evolve.

Our process combines research and analytics into each proof of concept and uses the results to inform new projects. We avoid stagnation and are skeptical toward what has worked in the past, realizing that “the only constant in life is change.” We can always be better: We can always know our customers better than we do now, and we can always meet their changing needs better than we are now.

There is no one book that defines us, but “The Design of Everyday Things,” by Don Norman is a great starting point because it explains iterative design and uses applied psychology to better understand users. 

We hope you enjoy our reading recommendations as much as we do, and that you’ll stay tuned as we Learn, Plan, Prove and Evolve. 
Instant marketing strategy.

# Understand culture with __Big Data__

Big data can link information from diverse sources over long periods of time. This connected data can reveal more about human culture than ever before. It’s through connected data that we’ll define what it means to push life in Canada forward, and learn more about how we can support the lives of Canadians as they grow and change. 

[Read more](http://www.farnamstreetblog.com/2015/01/big-data-as-a-lens-on-human-culture/)

# Study When Things Don’t Make Sense 

Building on the “fail fast” mentality, we respond with curiosity when our assumptions are wrong. Instead of brushing the unexpected aside, we ask why. We’ve learned that it’s often the surprises and the things that don’t make sense that trigger new insight. 

[Read more](http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2015/01/surprise_journal_notice_the_unexpected_to_fight_confirmation_bias_for_science.html)
